---
layout: post
title: OkCuGit
published: true
---

<h3>a sneaky way to find a potential employer's email</h3>

One of the first projects I made that is realistically useful was a little ruby script that finds the email addresses of GitHub users, called OkCuGit. Okay, what's the big deal? Aren't email addresses public information on GitHub? The answer is...sort of.

So a large percentage of users on GitHub display their email addresses publically on their profile. However, people who run companies would get too many emails from strangers a day to possibly manage if they made their email public. So many of the users I (and many other developers, I imagine) want to contact about jobs, network with, or just get to know better have made their email addresses private.

____________________________________________________________________________________
<h3>the quirks of github</h3>
A solution to this problem comes through a quirk in GitHub's system. It turns out, when you check the commit logs, email addresses, even ones normally hidden on the site, are shown. So the obvious solution to the problem of a potential employer not making their email address public is just to check out the commit logs of one of their repos. However, as I am in software development, it follows that I am lazy. So when I see a repetitive task that I am more likely than not going to be bored by doing (in this case, cloning a repository, checking git logs, recording the email, deleting the repository I cloned), I am tempted to make my computer do it for me. And thanks to the magic that is Ruby, I did just that.

____________________________________________________________________________________
<h3>18 lines</h3>
This tiny little Ruby project takes a repository name from the command line, creates a temporary folder, clones the repository into that folder, checks the commit logs of that repository, finds the unique email addresses and names from that commit log, prints them to the terminal in a pretty format, and then deletes that temporary folder it created earlier. The best part is, it does this all in 18 lines. That's less lines than it took to explain the project!

____________________________________________________________________________________
<h3>potential problems</h3>
So obviously, this is not going to work in all cases. A particularly savvy or particularly stupid user may set his/her GitHub commit email to something they don't use, something that isn't valid, or even someone else's email entirely. This could be to throw off people like me or simply out of a mistake for the savvy and stupid users respectively. This problem is lessened by the fact that most developers want a commit calender that is as green as possible, and if you don't set or confirm an email for that, your commit calender will appear blank.

Another issue I foresee is that on huge projects, there may be so many emails that any useful information is drowned out in a sea of open source contributors. If you know the name of the person whose email you'd like, it shouldn't be too hard to find, but if you don't, it may be difficult to use this tool on a large codebase with many contributors.

____________________________________________________________________________________
<h3>moving forwards</h3>
In the future, I'll make this project take a github username instead of a repository name. Then it could pick any repo they've authored and find their email. That way, you don't even have to go to GitHub and find a repository they've created. I also may make this into a web application, to make it more useable and accessable (after all, not everyone uses a mac nor does everyone have Ruby installed).

If you'd like to check this project out, contribute to it, or modify it, feel free to do so. <a href="https://github.com/kravinskylev/email_finder">Here's the repository</a>. Hopefully it can help someone out there find an email address that will land them a job!
